# NPK
### An AI focused personal farming assistant application.

## Problem : 
Access to information and training on best farming practices, crop diversification, and environmental sustainability is critical for small farmers to optimize their yields, increase their income, and ensure long-term sustainability. However, small farmers often face challenges in accessing such information and training. As a result, small farmers may be unable to implement sustainable and efficient farming practices, leading to lower crop yields and income. To address this challenge, there is a need for ICT based solution.

## Solution: 
NPK is an AI focused PWA that helps farmers overcome the challenges by providing them with the information about

1. *Crop Prediction*: NPK provides information about the best crop a farmer should grow in the perticular region for best yield based on the surrounding environment condition such as temperature, rainfall, humidity, ph, as well as the Nitrogen, Phosphorous, Potassium(optional). 
The above parameters are taken as features and predicts list of possible crops one can grow on the particular plot.

2. *Disease Prediction*: NPK provides information about the disease a plant may have, based on the image classification model (images must be provided by the user). Image classification is based on a deep CNN model "ResNet50". Can classify upto 30 different classes with an accuracy of ~98%.

3. *FarmBot*: User can ask questions related to farming and get answer which is generated by large language model(FLAN T5). It was fine tuned with a dataset consisting of farmer queries on 
Kisan Call Center (KCC). The dataset was prepared by web scraping from government data. It was trained on relatively small amount of data for now but can generate understandable answers. We have not been able to deploy it on time due to resource constraints, but the here's the repo where the model is hosted: https://huggingface.co/mr-oogway/flan-t5-qa

## Technologies Used: 
NPK is build using the following technologies
1. MERN (MongoDB, ExpressJs, ReactJs, NodeJs), Material UI, Tailwind CSS.
2. Tensorflow, Keras, Pytorch.
3. Firebase Authentication
4. Google Cloud Platform: Compute Engine (n2d-instance), Buckets.

## Future Plans:

1. Further fine tune FarmBot on big dataset (using TPU), and improve the Disease prediction to use object dectection (YoLo) and segmentation realtime. 
2. Predict drought/rainfall using geospatial analysis of Google Earth Engine datasets and DL models.
3. Predict yield using geospatial data and previous data.
4. Based on all the user data collected, give personalized recommendation throughout the whole process of farming.

## Hosting

### Client: https://npk-client.vercel.app/
### Client on vm: http://34.125.30.99:5000/
### GCP Server: http://34.125.50.13:8080